[MUSIC]
>> Mike North: I've undone the changes
that I had when I was just messing around
and I posted a link to the commit in
case anyone wants to look at a silly
example with authentication and
adding one, two, three.
So now we're back on the Critical path for
building our GitHub app.
So, and I'm just going to look at this to
make sure we do everything in order here.
So we're going to create a service and
add an items property to it,
which will be an array.
And then inject it onto the route for
the orgs page.
All right.
So
>> Mike North: Ember
g service favorites.
All right, and we've created our service.
And that's actually all we
need from ember CLI this time.
So we'll go into services, add items and
add new array literal here, so
remember it's a single term.
This object,
the influence of the service, and
thus the array within it will be shared
across all object I eject this on to.
Then I'm going to go to the routes and
find the orgs route.
And I'm going to use
the quick version of this.
Without a name remember that
it's equivalent to this, but
It will infer from the property key that
it's the favorite service that I want.
So the next thing we're gonna do is
tweak our each loop on orcs page.
So that I have something to click
with an action bound to it.
Fair enough.
>> Mike North: I'm just gonna go here.
Reformat things a little bit.
>> Mike North: Something saying favorite,
and I'm gonna bind my action.
>> Mike North: And
then I'm gonna pass in the org,
the whole org itself.
>> Mike North: And
we'll see where we're at.
So click and I get an error.
It's telling me that I have nothing
handling this action what a surprise.
So if I go back to my route and
create my actions object and
implement this taking in
the org as an argument,
because I'm passing it along in my
action binding I can do this get
favorites.items addObject org.
And I don't see anything happening,
because we gotta go to the next step.
So I'm adding the item, and
then I want to log to the console,
every time I add an item to the array.
So, I added this just in an effort to
illustrate how it's not just about sharing
data, but you can share functionality.
This can be sort of a common module,
obviously with a single ten that's really
about state but you can have methods
that are used to manipulate or
can read that shared state which
are also part of the service.
So I want to make this sort of
thing called favorite item.
This get items addObject item,
and then console log items.
>> Mike North: And
then go back to my route, and
I'm gonna actually just grab the favorite
service
>> Mike North: And this should work.
>> Mike North: Okay, it is working,
except I'm just gonna add
something else here, map.
I just want to log the IDs, which I'm
using as handy-dandy error function four.
And now, when we click on things, and
in fact when we click on them repeatedly,
you can see that the uniqueness check is
in fact working, this is just Chrome's
indication that I've logged the exact
same things six times, so there you go.
So now-
>> Speaker 2: What
was the map functionality?
>> Mike North: Could you repeat that
please?
>> Speaker 2: What was the map
functionality?
>> Mike North: Map is a higher order
function on array,
on the prototype for array.
Which lets you essentially
take an array of items and
create an equally sized second array where
each item in the array is derived.
Each item in the destination array
is derived from the source array
as defined by the function
that you pass into it.
So let me make this less confusing.
>> Mike North: So
that is the verbose way of defining it.
But now we have ES 2015, and so
it is just this.
>> Mike North: This is watch,
people use ES6 freely in Ember apps,
because Babel is baked in.
And you can see how I'm defining
my functions the ES6 way.
You're going to see a lot of
this code all over the place.
So definitely brush up.
If this looks a little unfamiliar.
I'm just going to reformat
this a little bit.
Make it clear.
And there we go.
That is.
That's the solution.
So we're through exercise three.
I'm going to commit.
And push to master.
Let me take some questions first.
>> Speaker 3: Yeah, just a couple here.
Can you explain the difference
between add objects and push object?
>> Mike North: Good question.
I'll actually look at the docs for that.
>> Speaker 2: I'm gonna guess that push
object is check the difference.
>> Mike North: That is my suspicion, but
I wanna make absolutely sure.
Looks just like push, if not present.
That's it, that object makes
the presence check first.
That's it.
Any questions?
>> Speaker 3: Is there a way to look
at services in the inspector?
>> Mike North: Yes there is.
An excellent question.
So, you have this object
in the event section.
You have this thing called container,
and maybe we'll have
time to talk deeply about the container
later, but the idea is that this is where
the factories of ember objects live and
this is where singletons live,
basically anything that you can refer to
by a name like the routes live here
which is why we can use strings
in link two instead of passing
the route Module itself.
The container is where that mapping exist.
So if we look here, we can actually
see all of our routes registered here.
You can see the service here.
I'm just saying, interesting, I expect it
to be there, I don't know why it's not
there.
>> Mike North: [LAUGH] Yeah.
Not sure.
>> Mike North: It clearly exists.
Right?
Nope that's not it.
We're using it, but maybe this
is a bug in the Ember inspector.
Don't know.
Sorry.
[LAUGH]
>> Speaker 2: [LAUGH] It's in mine.
>> Mike North: It's in yours.
>> Speaker 2: I mean,
I did the same thing you did.
>> Mike North: Maybe we're using different
versions or something.
Or, another possibility.
I have a much better answer now.
So, services are instantiated lazily.
And in this case, there is no need for
the favorite service until I
actually click on something.
So if I refresh, and
I see I have two services here.
And then I click.
And the inspector is not
actually bound to the app.
So I have to go away and come back.
Now you see we have three services.
Here's the favorite service.
And you can actually even click
on this download site in E.
And what that does is it stores
the service itself to a global variable
in your console.
And so.
>> Mike North: I
can actually access it directly.
So there's what I just favorited.
As you change it
>> Mike North: It should keep going.
Yep, so there you go.
Yep, so container is where you look there,
and keep in mind services created lazily,
so it was absolutely correct that
did not exist until I favored it.